So, Now we hopefully have
found a way to connect
all of these inputs to make
a multi inputable visualization.
And again these are convenience
widgets when working in Observable.
They were designed to play nicely with
plot cuz they're all part of the same
ecosystem.
But you could follow a similar pattern if
you were using your own HTML widgets or
if you were using reactive
inputs in some other framework.
Okay, so within Observable,
in this inputs.search,
we said that what we need to do is
replace the input array to this input,
confusing terminology to make sure
that this is searching over
the data that we care about.
Which in our case is going to
be the API log data, right?
So one thing we can do is just
simply replace that empty array
with the API log data.
And if we've done this right,
if I have done this right, now,
if there's nothing entered
into this search input,
I will see all 2000 results
of my full dataset.
But if I enter in a prefix like for
example,
users, it will not work,
[LAUGH] let's see.
Users, no files, there we go,
files, it must be user, singular.
There we go, okay yes,
so now it's working.
Now if I enter in user,
I see I only have 83 log results
from user related endpoints.
If I enter in search into my search meta,
then I will see all of these many,
many, many hits,
these 1,115 logs from the slash
file slash search endpoint and
so on and so forth.
So if the user of my dashboard or
in this case my single visualization
with connected inputs,
is interested in visualizing data just for
a particular endpoint, they can do so
using this search box, okay.
But that only works if the plot actually
knows about what's in the search box,
which right now it does not,
it's still displaying everything right.
Or, well, actually I've dragged
down my same check boxes and
it's still displaying
whatever matches that.
To filter that we had set up before
cuz I've copied down the code for
my plot from the earlier exercise.
So now what we need to do is
make sure that we are filtering
on both the checkboxes and the search box.
So I'll notice that this input search
results, give me this path search value,
and that value is what we're
putting into the table here.
So that path search variable and
actually holds the filtered down data set.
That's the result of applying that search
string, or looking for that search string,
so what if, instead of filtering
down my entire set of API log data.
Based on those selected codes,
what if I start with the already
filtered path search data set?
Which is gonna be the subset of the data,
maybe all of it that matches whatever
the user has put into that box.
So let's try replacing our API
log data with path search,
and now I'm seeing fewer data points.
That sounds good.
So now I should be able to,
and again, we could drag these
cells around if we don't wanna see things,
let me hide this for now.
Just so
we have a little bit of easy review.
So now, let's say I uncheck
some of these boxes okay,
it seems like the checkboxes
are still working,
and if I undo that we get more points.
Okay cool, let's try adding back the 200.
All right It seems like that is still
working let's try out with our,
I don't know., our search,
a thousand results.
Now we're seeing they're all the same
color because remember we were coloring in
that fill channel based on the path,
so now they're all the same path so
they're all the same color,
but it seems to be working.
So what we've got is a reactively
updating interactive visualization,
with multiple controls that the user
can use to like really Hone in
on the particular data that
they are interested in.
So they can drill down to
whatever specific endpoint or
status codes they care about.
And they can also filter down
to a particular endpoint.
Or we can imagine extending this
to a different use case, right?
Like, for
example if we were doing this with our
resolution data, from the past one we
could give folks the option to constrain
the resolutions that they're looking at.
Or choose only one or
two of the different device types, so
you can adapt this basic principle of
creating these interactive charts for
whatever the type of interactive is,
that you're trying to build.
And this is how we can do
it with observable inputs.
We've now gone through
our entire final project.
So, if you got slightly different results,
you can take a look at the reference,
finished implementation,
it's down at the bottom there.
But hopefully by now,
folks have a nicely working
multi input interactive data viz,
isn't that fun?